---
title: 'Review: 11/22/63'
description: 'A thoughtful review of 11/22/63 by Stephen King'
pubDate: 2019-06-22
bookTitle: '11/22/63'
author: 'Stephen        King'
genre: 'General'
rating: 4
readingTime: 2
purchaseLink: 'https://bookshop.org/books/112263/9781451627282'
goodreadsId: '10644930'
isbn: '1451627289'
publishYear: 2011
status: 'live'
tags: ['general', '2019', 'stephen king']
postType: 'review'
heroImage: 'https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/P/1451627289.01.L.jpg'
---

Oh "How we danced" - I didn't *really know* Stephen King could write so well, I had only previous experienced reading the first two books from his [b:The Dark Tower|5091|The Dark Tower (The Dark Tower, #7)|Stephen King|https://i.gr-assets.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1372296329l/5091._SY75_.jpg|6309701] series. He blends sci-fi, history, romance, suspense, and more in such a simple to consume way, and focuses on the character and plot really well. I mean, I think I read this sweet monster in ~3 days and it just blew me away - thats saying something!

Jake Epping is amazing, he's being pulled in so many directions at once, from one respect he starts falling for Sadie, and from the other side, he *has* to finish his mission he'd been sent into the past to perform. I thought Jake's experience and trouble with time travel seemed pretty realistic. The entire approach to it in the plot is well written, and not overly complicated or over explained - it doesn't get in the way of developing Jake's character, and lends itself well to the challenges he approaches while traveling back in time.

I probably could never explain it perfectly but Stephen King can write the kind of love and its feelings that are hard to come by and resonates in all of your bones. My eyes still swell from moments in this book:

> “If there is love, smallpox scars are as pretty as dimples. I'll love your face no matter what it looks like. Because it's yours.” 

Read this if you're looking to read the best book ever and are in a place where your emotions are able to swing.

A few words I learned that I loved:

**Obdyrate**: Stubbornly refusing to change one's opinion or course of action
**Jingoistic**: characterized by extreme patriotism in the form of aggressive or war like foreign policy